---
layout: post
title: "Clarity"
author: "Ayush Rawat"
categories: clarity
author: Ayush Rawat
---

2nd Jan 2022

Today I was listening to the podcast of Sandeep Maheshwari where he was mentoring the kids like me who are preparing for some exam. 

He ends with, your why is more important than what. Meaning why you do this is more important than what you do. It's not his own, I mean no one can own anything. But I have listen the same in many places and sometimes I do feel the same. Why I am doing something is more important than what I am doing.

Somehow down the line, same thing applies to me as well. I am asking this question to myself, Why I am preparing for exam?

I remember some months back I was asking what is that I should do? I was introspecting and going within to find the answers of all these questions. 

I was introspecting why banking, why MSc, why SSC and why not defense.

I introspected a lot about defense and somehow I convinced myself that I am not meant for it. 

Since I found that there is a exam through which I can do MCA from top NITs and can get good package, I thought lets give it a try. I know I love programming, I know I love doing things like this on computer and I feel like I will reach great heights in the same. 

Back when I was in 11th my interest towards this subject has grown massively, since I was bright in Maths, it was easy for me to interpret the meaning of the code and how things work. From that point I keep on moving forward and then completed my graduation with Computer Science. Now its the time to move ahead and take step towards MCA and learn more and more.

At the same time there are so many good courses out there. You should definitely give them a try and learn from people. You should know the life of a developer and you should know that how a developer learn.

I am willing to give my time and energy in developing apps and programming a code. It's what I like.

Programming is that light I am seeing that can drag me out of this hole and move me towards something bigger than I have ever imagined. 

I am thankful for this life and for all the things I have. I am thankful for god, my ancestors and my grand parents and parents. I am showing my gratitude towards mother earth and beloved sun for all that there is.

We somehow think that all the answers are out there. Probably they are, but the important thing is that, before searching them outside, search inside.

### Before searching outside, search inside.
They say don't lie to yourself, what do you mean by that? Don't lie to yourself, meaning be honest with yourself. What ever you do, you are not doing it because you were lying to yourself. Be honest, See the clear picture.

You don't lie to yourself, intentionally. It just happen, your mind makes a story and you believe in that. It's just a phenomenon. No one wants to lie to himself, it just happen. That's why seeing the clear picture is important. Clear that rust between you and your story. Don't fall for that. 

Still it's one of my aim to write a book. I know writing a book will never happen if I don't write a page or a line, that means start small. Small means you can start with the newsletter, or with some peace of twitter writing. There are so many opportunity to show yourself to the world. 

Why people write books?

few write for themselves, most of them write for the readers. I don't know what do you mean by writing for readers, for the world. You mean you want to picturize yourself in front of the world, saying I have thoughts this, I have written this. Or just like twitter where you write for the world, you are writing a book.

Okay lets not go there, and lets there for answering all the questions I have. 

I need a degree for learning computer or a programming language write. You can learn that form some courses as well. I know because of the society and the pattern you need a degree for that, but you can really learn the same from courses and from the books. All you need to give is your time and energy, after showing your passion towards that. Lets take small steps towards that direction and learn more and more.

